The Joe Rogan experience.
Well, when you make films like Elysium, you know,
these dystopian films about potential futures,
it's got like, sort of sparked these thoughts in your mind.
Like how many of these possibilities could we encounter in our lifetime?
Well, at least, you know, I'm was, I mean,
Elisia man district nine are both kind of cut from the same cloth in the sense
that I,
I do think a lot of that had to do with growing up in South Africa and just
being affected by I'm very naturally interested in
how society seemed to stratify and how wealth inequality, you know, again,
this is biological programming, right? Like I think,
I think that people hang on to resources that they have as much as they can.
And so you end up with, you end up with, with billionaires, um, because it's,
it's an understandable thing, right? It makes total sense.
You're just hoarding food in your cave to live through the winter and keep your
family safe. So, but, but at least I'm really, if,
if district nine was the,
was the sort of racial part of growing up in South Africa and just being very
aware of the environment that I was in,
then Alicia is the kind of wealth discrepancy part of it. You know, where,
where South Africa and Brazil and India would be,
would be in first place when it comes to them. And you just see very,
you see imagery that's extremely striking, um,
in that country that leaves an indelible mark on you. I think actually,
you know, the inspiration for Elysium entire, the,
the whole thing actually for me was I was shooting commercials in,
um, it was, I was, it was 2005 and I was, I was,
I had started directing commercials and I was doing a commercial for Nike and I
was in, uh,
San Diego and the line producer that I was working with really wanted to go to
Tijuana and, and I was like, sick. I didn't want to go. And he's like,
we gotta get in the car. And we got to go to Tijuana.
Like now we gotta go down there and get a, get a beer or something.
And I was like, I really don't want to do this. And he's like, let's just go,
it'll be fine. So I went,
we went through the border into Mexico as the sun was going down and
we got there and got on to, you know, we were on some street corner and I,
we bought beers.
And then we were walking around into Tijuana with the beers and these federal
Raleigh's saw us doing it.
And we got arrested like kind of relatively violently where we were, you know,
it was a shakedown from money obviously, but it was like we,
we got coughed and thrown in the back of the police car.
And then they started driving out of Tijuana in the darkness.
And, um,
and the producer that I was with kept putting like a hundred dollar bills
through the graded thing to the, to the front seats.
And then once there was enough money that had gone through,
they just kind of opened the doors and let us out.
And we had to walk back to where the car was and the farmer's walk.
I don't remember how long we were walking for. It was, it felt long.
It felt like 40, or like an hour, maybe 40 minutes somewhere in there.
But the thing that was crazy about it was,
was I could see us Blackhawks flying the border
with like lights on them and, and floodlights on the far on the U S side.
And we were walking through basically favelas with dogs barking.
And like they had dropped us in places that like tourists from the U S would
never go.
So we were walking in basically what felt like a south African shantytown in
Mexico, uh, with feral animals and just like this.
But to see this country that, you know, is, was,
was this the sort of global hyper power that everyone from Mexico was moving
into, um, w was trying to get into, uh,
was incredibly striking. Like it was just crazy. I mean,
it is crazy if you think about that,
that level of poverty up against the U S border. And then,
and I think Elisia I'm really was,
was this sort of subconscious part of it was South Africa,
but the conscious part was that I, at, in that moment, I was like,
I really want to find a way to turn that experience into,
into visuals that represent these two worlds that live on one
another's doorstep.
So you were, as you're walking by,
you could see the planes that were flying over the U S.
Side, not the planes, it was border patrol, they were Blackhawks,
there were helicopters that were flying the border. And, um,
and just floodlights, there were floodlights like along the, along the fence,
along the perimeter, like, I guess they driven us kind of like, you know,
east of, of where we were. It was weird. It was, it was,
it was very impactful though. Like it had a huge effect on me.
Watch the entire episode for free only on Spotify.